Notes from Han Sem Joo thesis
Resolution fo the Cotnrol Rod Cusping Problem for Nodal Methods, PhD thesis, MIT, February 1984

 [S-5]
 K. S. Smith, "Spatial Homogenization Methods for Light Water Reactor Analysis", Ph.D. Thesis, Department of Nuclear Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, June 1980
   Only marginally accurate for certain situations since boundary conditions are assumed to be reflecting
 [H-2]
 C. L. Hoxie, "Application of Nodal Equivalence Theory to the Nuetronic Analysis of PWR's," Ph.D. Thesis, Department of Nuclear Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, June 1982
   Cluster of assemblies to develop homogenized XS instead of a single assembly.  Too expensive, but much more accurate.
 [K-2]
 H. S. Khalil, "The Application of Nodal Methods to PWR Analysis," Ph.D. Thesis, Department of Nuclear Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, January 1983
   Color sets.  Have to use a lot of them, but are accurate and provide detailed flux reconstruction
 [C-3], [F-5]
 A. Y. Cheng, "Homogenization of BWR Assemblies by Response Matrix Methods," Ph.D. Thesis, Department of Nuclear Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, June 1981
 P. J. Finck, "Homogenization and Dehomogenization Schemes for BWR Assemblies", Ph.D. Thesis, Department of Nuclear Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, January 1983
   Iterative method.  Pre-tabulated response matrices combined with the surface currents used to update cross-sections on the fly.  Fairly accurate, but not totally consistent.  Convergence difficulties as well.
 [B-2, F-7]
 F. Bennewitz, H. Finnemann, M. R. Wagner, "Higher Order Corrections in Nodal Reactor Calculations," Trans. Amer. Nucl. Soc., 22, 250 (1975)
 H. Finnemann, W. Gundlach, "Space-Time Kinetics Code IQSBOX for PWR and BWR," Atomkernenergie (ATKE), Bd. 37 (1981)
  Uses old method 2 in code IQSBOX.  NEM quadratic source expansion is used to provide a flux shape (why didn't they use the quartic flux expansion?)
 [S-4]
 K. S. Smith, "An Analytic Nodal Method for Solving the Two-Group, Multidimensional, Static and Transient Neutron Diffusion Equation,"  N.E. Thesis, Department of Nuclear Engineering, MIT, Cambridge, MA, March 1979
   Results for old method 2 from Smith.  Reduced error by about 50%.  Quadratic shape is not sufficient.
 [L-2]
 S. Langenbuch, W. Maurer, W. Werner, "Coarse-Mesh Nodal Dfifusion Method for the Analyis of Space-Time Effects in Large Light Water Reactors," Nucl. Sci. Eng., 63, (1977)
   Tried higher order curves than quadratic for old method 2, but numerical issues arose and shapes were non-physical
  
  
  
  
Old methods:
1.  Tabulation of Cross Sections for PRN - Requires 3D assembly solve.  Too many rod positions for transients.
2.  Flux Expansion in Polynomials - Quadratic shape.  Not good enough.

New methods:
0.  Equivalence Approach - Solves 3x3x4 node problem with rod in top 2 nodes.  Uses discontiniuty factors from this solution, and homogenizes cross-sections using these results.
      Completely eliminated rod cusping.  New methods focus on executing this without a separate computation
1.  Tabulation/Interpolation of DF and XS - Too many solutions required.  Impractical.
2.  Asymptotic Method - Two semi-infinite slabs.  Solve.  Apply results to various rod positions.  Turns out it sucks.

Newer methods:
1.  Extension of asymptotic reconstruction (new #2) - Like new #2, but isntead of semi-infinite slabs, uses solution from 2 adjacent fully rodded/unrodded nodes.  Then assumes that the shape across those 2 nodes
      does not change much when the rod moves, but only shifts axially with the rod.  Drawback: have to start out with rod aligned with node boundaries
2.  Extension of newer #1 - Uses previous PRN solution and assumes control rod tip moved only slightly.  Solves 1D, 3-region problem for axial flux shape in the 2 parts of the PRN and fully unrodded node below